Getting started guides for Kyma (#9296)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/getting-started/04-expose-microservice.md

---
title: Expose the microservice
type: Getting Started
---

Now that you deployed a standalone `orders-service` microservice, allow other resources to communicate with it. Make it available for other resources outside the cluster by exposing its Kubernetes Service through an APIRule custom resource (CR).

## Reference

> This guide demonstrates how [API Gateway](/components/api-gateway) works in Kyma. It exposes your Service under secured or unsecured endpoints for external Services to communicate with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how [API Gateway](/components/api-gateway) works in Kyma. It exposes your Service on secured or unsecured endpoints for external Services to communicate with it.
```
You expose something `on an endpoint` or `at an endpoint`. See also [this ngram](https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?year_end=2019&year_start=1800&content=under+an+endpoint%2C+on+an+endpoint%2C+at+an+endpoint&smoothing=3&corpus=26&direct_url=t1%3B%2Con%20an%20endpoint%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Cat%20an%20endpoint%3B%2Cc0). 

 In these guides, you use `on`, so I went with this one for consistency.

Author: Thx, changed it to `on` everywhere.

Create an APIRule CR which exposes the Kubernetes Service of the microservice under na unsecured endpoint (**handler** set to `noop`) and accepts the `GET` and `POST` methods.

>**TIP:** **noop** stands for "no operation" and means access without any token. If you want to secure your Service, read the [tutorial](/components/api-gateway/#tutorials-expose-and-secure-a-service) to learn how to do that.

Follow these steps:

<div tabs name="steps" group="expose-microservice">
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

1. Open the terminal window and apply the [APIRule CR](/components/api-gateway#custom-resource-api-rule):

  ```yaml
  cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
  apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
  kind: APIRule
  metadata:
    name: orders-service
    namespace: orders-service
    labels:
      app: orders-service
      example: orders-service
  spec:
    service:
      host: orders-service
      name: orders-service
      port: 80
    gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
    rules:
      - path: /.*
        methods: ["GET","POST"]
        accessStrategies:
          - handler: noop
        mutators: []
  EOF
  ```

> 2. Check if the API Rule was created and has the `OK` status:

Author: Ok, I changed it everywhere in docs.

   ```bash
   kubectl get apirules orders-service -n orders-service -o=jsonpath='{.status.APIRuleStatus.code}'
   ```

</details>
<details>
<summary label="ui">
UI
</summary>

>**TIP:** You can expose a Service or a Function with an API Rule from different views in the Console UI. This tutorial shows how to do that from the generic **API Rules** view.

1. Select the `orders-service` Namespace from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel.

> 2. Go to **Configuration** > **API Rules** in the left navigation panel, and select **Create API Rule**.

Author: Again, it's not Oxford comma I meant here but [comm between two independent clauses connected by conjunctions such as `and`, `or`, `but`, `for`, `nor`](https://data.grammarbook.com/blog/commas/connecting-sentences-with-commas-and-semicolons/).

> 2. Go to **Configuration** > **API Rules** in the left navigation panel, and select **Create API Rule**.

Reviewer: Yeah, but they are connected. It's a sequence of actions you should do in one go. 
Your source also says:
> **Rule**: If you have only one clause (one subject and verb pair), you generally won’t need a comma in front of the conjunction.
>
> **Example**: _I have painted the house but still need to sand the floors.
This sentence has two verbs but only one subject, so it has only one clause._

If you were to convert your sentence from an imperative one to a declarative one, you would probably have
`You go to **Configuration** > **API Rules** in the left navigation panel and select **Create API Rule**.`
and not
`You go to **Configuration** > **API Rules** in the left navigation panel, and you select **Create API Rule**.`

See also [this thread](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/171275/do-you-separate-an-imperative-after-a-conjunction-by-a-comma). 

But all the listed source and your examples confirm that this comma is also correct and used, so if you're strongly inclined to keep it, go for it.

3. In the **General settings** section:

    - Enter `orders-service` as the API Rule's **Name**.

    >**NOTE:** The APIRule CR can have a different name than the Service, but it is recommended that all related resources share a common name.

    - Enter `orders-service` as **Hostname** to indicate the host on which you want to expose your Service.

    - Select `orders-service (port: 80)` from the drop-down list in the **Service** column to indicate the Service name for which you want to create the API Rule.

4. In the **Access strategies** section, leave only the `GET` and `POST` methods marked and the `noop` handler selected. This way you will be able to send the orders to the Service and retrieve orders from it without any token.

5. Select **Create** to confirm the changes.

>     The message will appear on the screen confirming the changes were saved.

Author: Ok, I changed it everywhere else treating docs as separately, since this message appears in other guides as well. Or do you rather thing in other it should be already `the`?

>     The message will appear on the screen confirming the changes were saved.

Reviewer: Thanks!
I would treat them separately, since one might not read them in one go, or might already know some stuff and just refer to a portion of these guides.
They're really well-written! I believe they'll be used much more than just for getting started!

> 6. In the API Rule's details view that opens up automatically, check if the API Rule status is `OK`. See if you can access the Service by selecting the HTTPS link under **Host** and adding the `/orders` endpoint at the end of it.

Reviewer: Will you be applying suggestions `1` and `3`?

> 6. In the API Rule's details view that opens up automatically, check that the API Rule status is `OK`. See if you can access the Service by selecting the HTTPS link under **Host** and adding the `/orders` endpoint at the end of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the automatically opened API Rule's details view, check that the API Rule status is `OK`. Then, access the Service by selecting the HTTPS link under **Host** and adding the `/orders` endpoint at the end of it.
```
See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/9296#discussion_r479277634) comment.

> **NOTE:** For the whole list of endpoints available in the service, see its [OpenAPI specification](./assets/orders-service-openapi.yaml).

</details>
</div>

### Call and test the microservice

Follow these steps:

> **CAUTION:** If you have a Minikube cluster, you must first add the IP address of the exposed k8s Service to the `hosts` file on your machine:
>
>  ```bash
>  echo "$(minikube ip) orders-service.kyma.local" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
>  ```

1. Retrieve the domain of the exposed microservice and save it to the environment variable:

  ```bash
  export SERVICE_DOMAIN=$(kubectl get virtualservices -l apirule.gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1=orders-service.orders-service -n orders-service -o=jsonpath='{.items[*].spec.hosts[0]}')
  ```

> 2. Run this command in the terminal to call the service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run this command in the terminal to call the Service:
```

Should this be `service` or `Service`?

Author: `Service` :)

  ```bash
  curl -ik "https://$SERVICE_DOMAIN/orders"
  ```

>   The system returns a similar response:

Reviewer: This sounds like the response is similar to the just executed command. 
```suggestion
  The system returns a response similar to this one:
```

  ```bash
  content-length: 2
  content-type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
  date: Mon, 13 Jul 2020 13:05:33 GMT
  server: istio-envoy
  vary: Origin
  x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 37

  []
  ```

3. Send a `POST` request to the microservice with sample order details:

  ```bash
  curl -ikX POST "https://$SERVICE_DOMAIN/orders" \
    -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' -d \
    '{
      "orderCode": "762727210",
      "consignmentCode": "76272725",
      "consignmentStatus": "PICKUP_COMPLETE"
    }'
  ```

4. Call the microservice again to check the storage:

  ```bash
  curl -ik "https://$SERVICE_DOMAIN/orders"
  ```

>   You should receive a similar response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Expect a response similar to this one:
```
As per [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/08-style-and-terminology.md), we're not supposed to use `should`. What if it doesn't?

  ```bash
  HTTP/2 200
  content-length: 73
  content-type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
  date: Mon, 13 Jul 2020 13:05:51 GMT
  server: istio-envoy
  vary: Origin
  x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 6

  [{"orderCode":"762727210","consignmentCode":"76272725","consignmentStatus":"PICKUP_COMPLETE"}]
  ```

>   You can see the microservice returns the previously sent order details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can see that the microservice returns the previously sent order details.
```
It reads better (without `that`, at first, you want to read it as `you can see [NOUN][mental pause...][figuring out it's a noun clause]`).

> 5. Remove the [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) created by the `orders-service` Deployment. Run this command and wait for the system to delete the Pod and start a new one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Remove the [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) created by the `orders-service` Deployment. Run this command, and wait for the system to delete the Pod and start a new one:
```
I added a comma because of the two adjacent `and`'s to separate them and add more clarity.

   ```bash
   kubectl delete pod -n orders-service -l app=orders-service
   ```

6. Call the microservice again to check the storage:

   ```bash
   curl -ik "https://$SERVICE_DOMAIN/orders"
   ```

>    The system returns a similar response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The system returns a response similar to this one:
```

  ```bash
  content-length: 2
  content-type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
  date: Mon, 13 Jul 2020 13:05:33 GMT
  server: istio-envoy
  vary: Origin
  x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 37

  []
  ```

>   As you can see, the `orders-service` microservice uses in-memory storage which means every time you delete the Pod of the microservice or change the Deployment definition, the order details get lost. In further guides, you will see how you can prevent order data deletion by binding external Redis storage to the microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As you can see, the `orders-service` microservice uses in-memory storage, which means every time you delete the Pod of the microservice or change the Deployment definition, you lose the order details. In further guides, you will see how you can prevent order data deletion by binding external Redis storage to the microservice.
```
1) The `which` used here is non-defining (it does not help you distinguish between different alternatives and only adds additional information non-essential for the distinction) and therefore needs a comma before it.
See the [reference](https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/comma-not-before-which-secondary-source-which-means.3155068/).
See the [reference](https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/comma-not-before-which-secondary-source-which-means.3155068/).

2) `the order details get lost` -> `you lose the order details` - this is just nitpicking. Feel free to ignore it and edit the suggestions, it's just `get lost` brings to my mind sad data that no-one wanted to play with and that was told to go away :D

Follow these steps:

> > **CAUTION:** If you have a Minikube cluster, you must first add its IP address mapped to the exposed Kubernetes Service to the `hosts` file on your machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **CAUTION:** If you have a Minikube cluster, you must first add its IP address mapped to the hostname of the exposed Kubernetes Service to the `hosts` file on your machine:
```
